--- 
title: Anything you want.
date: 08/07/2011
tags: work, life, rock 'n' roll
slug: anything-you-want

Did you ever meet these always-on type of online addicts? The type who can't stand the thought of being offline for an hour or two? The type who'll buy a new phone charger when faced with the fact that they left their's at home when already having started a trip?

I'm not like them. I lend a charging cable from our office's hardware department after realizing I could be offline being on the go visiting my hometown for the weekend ;-).

Said but true but the four hour train trip I'm currently undergoing through offline booneyland finally let me come to a rest. No E-Mails or IMs to reply to. OK I replied one or two mails which will be sent when I'm online againg, but: I managed to read one of the books I ordered earlier this week, yeah! It was [Derek Sivers](http://sivers.org)'s "Anything You Want" where he described the ten years in which he built a company he loved and what drove them apart. Pretty inspiring read.

While the title of the book "Anything you want" is intended to point at creating a company as your personal utopia shaped according to your ideas & virtues, there are also inspirational thoughts concerning personal development in it.

>   As the company grew, everyone was surprised that I still did all the programming myself. But for an Internet business, outsourcing the programming would be like a band outsourcing the songwriting. -- Derek Sivers

Working as an IT Consultant was writing the songs for other peoples' bands. I changed that recently and right now I assist teaching start-ups how to write their own songs until they are able to continue on their own. Which I learn a lot from, not only since I changed the instruments but also because there's one or two gifted singer/songwriter type of guys in my surrounding.

I also keep writing songs for my own personal pleasure. Some of them even start to hit people's nerve from time to time, which is quite an amazing feeling. It's always about making things happen. Currently, there are one or two bands that also aim for some money, but that's not the core motivation. It's about making it a bit more easy for people to achieve their goals. Or just have some fun, like that twitter crawler - have a look at the [chords & some gigs](http://github.com/5v3n/tweetlr/wiki) if you're curious. I'm excited about the fact that it enabled some quite entertaining projects to prosper.

> Just pay close attention to what excites you and what drains you. Pay close attention to when you're being the real you and when you're trying to impress an invisible jury. -- Derek Sivers

My job, my life, my work. Earning my living, having fun & something in between. On the bottom line I'm living in a city with lots of great people that have astonishing ideas. And some of them seem to be considering me to be a match when it comes to make things happen. On the tech side where I collected a little bit of experience the last couple of years. And getting concepts straight and brought to live, which is a skill I'm just starting to develop.

I enjoy what Derek calls "the solitude of the craft" - but I also enjoy to participate in identifying the right decisions. 









